foreign
welcome to the art of accomplishment
where we explore how deepening
connection with ourselves and others
leads to creating the life we want with
enjoyment and ease I'm Brett Kistler
here today with my co-host Joe Hudson
you might remember the coaching session
we published last month between Joe and
our guest Christopher well we're back
for round two this time we have
Christopher's wife Sadie joining us in
this session the three of them explore
strength and vulnerability including the
vulnerability of anger and other big
emotions
so once again I want to remind our
listeners that this is coaching the
conversations we have on this podcast
are not intended to diagnose treat or
cure any disease or mental health
disorder thank you for listening and I
really hope you enjoy it
[Music]
so uh you you all listen to the last
recording how what what how was it for
you Sadie to listen to it what how would
it bring up in you
I mean
yeah well Christopher talks in it about
how
I can get triggered
when he's
really emotional or really sad and
scared so listening to
30 minutes of him being sad and scared
of course was
triggering me it just talking about it
trigger me but it was really nice I mean
yeah it was sweet how you held space for
him at the end that was
yeah that felt really nice to hear
yeah what what is it that
that triggers you before I'm jumping
right in and as as you might have found
out I have that tendency to do
um but be before I do I'm wondering what
what would you like out of this session
that would be the best case scenario for
you
I mean I'm really just open to where it
goes
um I think just getting
you know getting closer with Christopher
building our connection
um getting more comfortable
uh with how how he's feeling with where
we are
um
but really I don't have like an end goal
Christopher and I talked about that
earlier too before this like oh what do
we want from this and I am just open
I have no expectations I guess okay just
and what I'm hearing you say is you want
deeper connection with Christopher and
you want to be able to
have it sounds like empathy is that
right have empathy for Christopher while
he's in while he's in it without feeling
uncomfortable yeah
okay yeah that sounds good that sounds
like that sounds like something that's
possible
so so then then yeah please please yeah
so I won't I want to add to that
something that listening back to the
episode I did with you Joe
um
it kind of came off a little bit from my
end like
oh Sadie's so uncomfortable with my
emotions and like
the backdrop to that uh was that yeah
neither of us had any idea of how much
trauma and [__] was in there and so ones
that those defenses broke
say do you have yeah she's seen now
things that should potentially only be
reserved for you know trauma Specialists
or parents caring for a kid
and so she's she's done that a lot and
then I feel like now when I'm starting
to get a grasp on it and be able to I
found my connection to myself and I can
hold space for me now
uh I feel like that has kind of
traumatized
her a little bit like being with all of
that [__]
um yeah so she she's shown me a lot of
empathy I just want to stress that it's
just the last year it's just been like
yeah you've come out and said I I can't
hear you cry more or I can't like it's
just it's too much
uh yeah
so just to balance it out a little bit
um yeah
that was a lot all right yep so
Sadie I just confirming like how do you
do you feel how how if at all do you
feel traumatized by
his what you've experienced uh
him going through
I mean it's more
exhaustion yeah I think and it's it's
not every once in a while that
things come up it's you know all the
time
every day
for hours every day and it's just been
of course it's a lot for Christopher but
for me it's
it's just been so much for so long that
I think I'm just tired and it's hard for
me to
yeah I guess feel I feel a little
hopeless that this is just what it's
gonna be
forever
yeah
Okay so what in your mind what's the
right amount of time that you're you
should be holding space for him like
what's like what's what's I know that's
a silly question but like what it really
not just your mind but like your whole
system what is it
what do you tell yourself you should be
doing here
um
yeah
I don't know I think um
sometimes it it
just is so overwhelming
and
he has me to come to and talk to and I
carry that burden but I don't have
I don't have that same support yeah and
you know so I I don't know the amount of
time it's just more that
it's I need it too sometimes if that
makes sense yeah yeah that makes total
sense what what made you sad in the
question like the question was what how
much time do you tell yourself you
should be doing that
and I like even now I hear I see that as
soon as the question comes there's a
little more sadness what is it that
creates sadness there
um I think I feel
like a really bad partner
because part of me feels like I should
I I should have you know unlimited time
I should have unlimited
space for him yeah so I feel I feel
really selfish
that it's just been recent I think that
I've been speaking with Christopher
really honestly about how I'm you know
I'm I'm kind of at my limit and and I
can't carry more so I feel I feel guilty
because I know Christopher needs that
support and I just don't feel like I can
give him everything
yeah
yeah so so what I'm hearing you say is
that there's some part of you that feels
like you should be there all the time
every day 24 hours and there's some part
of you that recognizes that that will
make you explode
yes that is spot on okay and but the
other thing that I'm noticing is
I heard in the last conversation with
Christopher that that he very much like
he said I would pay good money to hold
her as she
yeah and so yeah yeah yeah
to hold her while you were going through
your grief in this [__] up situation
and and what's preventing that if
anything
yeah I mean your connection course was
really nice in that aspect because it
not I don't want to say forced me but
you know there was exercises where I
needed to you know you need to
participate in so I was
kind of had to show that vulnerable
emotional side I don't know why
I just blocked that off
I'm not sure mentally you're telling me
that you block it off and you have just
cried in front of a stranger twice yeah
I'm ready to explode
so so you said you don't know why what
if you had to guess what what's the
reason why you don't
share your pain in this situation
[Music]
oh that's a hard question I'm trying I'm
trying to really guess I I think I I
just so
I don't know
um I mean maybe I wasn't
you know shown how to be vulnerable as a
child
never really felt that type of safety
where I could go to family members and
cry or you know I've always been really
independent my entire life so I think
that's subconsciously I just like know
you can handle your own stuff you know
how much are you told that your job was
to not just handle your own stuff but
take care of other people's emotions in
your oh all the time
yeah yeah so I'm curious what what would
you like to say to the people who taught
you not not I don't want names or
anything like that
um what I want is for you to just what
would be the feelings you could express
to them right now if you were to express
to the people who taught you that your
job was to take care of them emotionally
as CH as a child
or as a teenager
yeah
uh I mean
I I mean I'm disappointed
and I've I'd be disappointed with them
so I would tell them that they failed
they they failed me in that aspect and
I would yeah I guess just recognition I
would want them to recognize that I
carried that weight so can you do it
like as if you're I'll be that whoever
those people are I'll be that and you
speak to me directly
okay
um I can just feel the emotions bubbling
over yeah um
I'm enjoying it I'm enjoying I'm
enjoying your emotions dude do people
cry on this podcast do you this is the
time oh my God
I had once one person once try not to
cry the whole podcast and then they we
stopped the podcast they were actually
in my office at the time and then
they just held me and sobbed for 20
minutes because they held it all in
which was horrible for that I would like
it made me so sad so yes please okay
that makes me feel better at least
because they're these questions are
really bring in the tears but um okay so
if you are that person and I should
speak to you yeah
what would you directly say
you tried your best
but you
you ultimately failed me
and
I needed you
and you were never there
and while you taught me Independence and
you know how to be strong and resilient
you didn't teach me how to be vulnerable
and you didn't teach me how to ask for
help
and
now I'm
trying to work on that and I'm
trying to change but it's
become this personality that I've
developed where I'm
I do everything alone and I don't need
help when deep down I do
and I'm mad at you for that
yeah yeah you have every right to be mad
at me
ah yeah
I know that's not what they would say no
no no yeah
yeah so here we are and you're actually
expressing an emotion with me and being
vulnerable not just with me but with
whoever will be listening to this
podcast and your names involved so
you're fully doing the thing that you
have problems doing apparently
so here's the question what what if
anything makes it harder to do it with
Christopher
wow
yeah
I think
I mean there's part of me that just
feels
like I shouldn't feel this way
um
and
I kind of Gaslight myself like no you're
fine
toughen up like deal with this and whose
voice is that
my negative voice in my head yeah who if
it wasn't yours who's whose would it be
like who said that to you when you were
young toughen up
oh
my parents yeah
just toughen up and and deal with it on
your own yeah
like emotions were never welcome yeah
and also I think uh so what what makes
you still listen to your parents voice
yeah I don't know
I think that's why when you know
Christopher was like oh we should
do this course and then oh we should go
on this podcast I'm finally feeling
you know
I I see that these thoughts I have are
not helpful and they're not accurate
um
so I'm really trying not to listen to
that voice but subconsciously it just
kind of comes out so it here's a
question for you so you have this voice
telling you this stuff and there's some
aspect of you that knows it's not true
that it's you know what would be
required for you to just like know it
was just absolutely full of [__]
like that every part of your body like
when you heard it you're just like like
you know it would be like a little kid a
little kid is like no but the dinosaurs
are still alive and you'd just be like
ah yeah
sorry yeah what would be required for
you to see it that way
foreign
[Music]
to be honest I don't know I guess
therapy like would help
I don't mean I don't mean to process I
mean like a an instantaneous what would
be the instantaneous recognition that
would be required
to just
fully understand that that is not your
voice it's not a voice of that's true
it's just
it has nothing to do with you
yeah I mean it's so engraved in me yeah
like
just bleeding through my veins these
thoughts of you know just be tough and
handle everyone else's emotions
that I honestly don't know what would
give me that reaction
yeah so I'm I'm curious about something
Christopher just to in your own words if
it's true for you can you say something
to say to you like um
I never want you to deal with my
emotions I only want you to be with me
when you when you feel like you can
foreign
baby I never want you to deal with my
emotions for me
I just want you to be with me when you
feel like you can
and I truly mean that
and I I don't need you to deal with my
emotions
and I love you
more than anything
right now when you're emotional I love
you so much baby
you don't have to be strong all the time
[__] that
you let that in
usually when this happens the person
doesn't let it in but I saw you fully
let that in you had like one little
flash maybe where you didn't believe
something is that is that accurate or
did you is it was it all in how what
happened no maybe
but no I I think I took it in
it was nice yeah
okay but still somehow or another that
sounds like is that how how how is that
enough as a closed question but is that
enough for you to be able to just not
believe the voice in your head anymore
at least with Christopher
and no okay but it's uh you know I I
just have to actively work on it and so
I'm gonna question that like you've had
moments in your life where you
and if I'm not saying it's necessary or
even needed like you're great just the
way you are and you've had moments in
your life where
you've just seen something and then it
changes right you've had moments where
you're just like oh this is not how you
cut an onion this is how you cut an
onion or whatever and then you don't
have to and you've been cutting an onion
the same way for 20 years but all of a
sudden you're like oh yeah that makes me
cry this way of cutting an onion doesn't
make me cry and it's changed right you
don't have to like go to therapy or
anything
what is it
what is it that's necessary for you to
see that your emotions are welcome and
you taking care of Christopher's emotion
is actually
um
it's actually hurting him
what would you need to see what would
need to happen for you to just see that
I wouldn't well I don't know I don't
know
yeah yeah I knew and I was trying to
guess already
um
I guess I would need to see
some type of action or shift from
Christopher yeah
because it can feel like yeah of course
your your emotions are welcome but
at the end of the day I still am the one
that needs to be strong in this
relationship because he's not
um gotcha
so wait hold on a second I'm just gonna
I'm gonna now I'm gonna [__] with you a
little bit
he's the one that's actually handling
all of his emotions and having them and
going through his trauma that's some
strength what what does he need what
you're the one that's like no I mean not
now you are but for years you're like no
I'm not gonna feel it which is yeah not
handling it what
how do you have this story that he needs
you to be strong and how do you have the
story that this is strength
yeah the the strengthening is definitely
just it goes back to me having to
be
like if Christopher's really depressed
yeah and really scared and really
hopeless
and maybe at the same time I feel the
same yeah
I don't want us to just spiral into
depression so then I'm like it's okay
let's figure this out and
it's usually me
that is that that takes that role that
kind of nurturing role yeah
because it feels like if we're both if
the two of us are like oh this is
hopeless like we're never gonna get it
let's let's find out let's find out
let's find out if that's true that's
kind of crazy right so Christopher can
you access that space of like that
depression where you feel like this
you're just [__] never getting out of
this
uh and and so I'm gonna let him speak it
and I want you to just agree with him
okay don't try to don't try to convince
him out of his emotional state just
actually like if anything just like
fully
you don't have to enter into the space
with him you can or you don't have to
but you're not in any way gonna like
fight that current you're gonna go with
that current
okay let's just see what happens
yeah [__] I'm never gonna get better
I'm just always gonna [__] release
trauma and
I'm just gonna eat shitty food because
I'm afraid to eat what I want and be in
pain and
it's never gonna get better
yeah
this [__] sucks
yeah it's [__]
oh [__]
yeah it makes me so [__] angry I
[__] hate it
yeah I I
go ahead
sometimes I don't I
sometimes I don't even want to live
anymore
and it's scary
it feels good
what's happening in you Sadie like I see
there's moments where I saw like this uh
you were just with him and then there
were some things that he said that
seemed like it tightened your stomach a
bit and you
like you wanted to be there but there's
a little party that like took a step
back but that's how I see it what
actually happened
yeah
yeah I mean I try to be there and then
part of me is like
yeah I mean it's just that I agree with
what he's saying like it is it's just
[__] and when he's like oh I'm gonna be
like this forever I'm like yeah you are
so I just I guess pardon me gets really
angry
yeah yeah
that was actually the cool thing so
how often have you guys just gotten
[__] angry about this laughs
never I think
we maybe we've taken turns and it's been
directed at each other a little more
than we want maybe yeah so what I
noticed is I said angry and you both
[__] smiled and you both are like you
literally laughed and what I also
noticed is that when he wasn't talked
out of it that's where he went
he started saying it sucked and then he
was like
then he then he was like and I'm pissed
at it and that's actually where you kind
of leaned in a little bit you were like
ah like I saw that kind of leaning in
then he went to the like I'm not even
sure if I wanna like live with this
and then so so I just noticed there's
like there's some anger here and I'm
wondering
what would be a fun way to get angry at
this [__] like what would be the most
enjoyable way for you two to get angry
at like you're both a totally smiling
still
what would be the way that it would feel
great to go get angry at this
gotten
anus I don't know
no
throw stuff maybe the rage room I know
you like that yeah like maybe throw
things
yeah and then in the in the middle of
that I'll probably hurt my shoulder and
then we can be even more mad at that
because that always happens right
yeah yeah no but but there's something
really to this because I definitely
um anger is the emotion that I've had
the most issue expressing hmm
well while expressing in a healthy way
I've been angry internally through
anxiety probably a repression but um and
Sadie you're better at
I usually say there are two people
people who get ulcers and people who
give ulcers and we're one each
so you're you're pretty good baby at
expressing anger at when you get angry
and I'm good at detracting and
internalizing it
so it's a good story and probably
externally somewhat true however
you need to stiff up your lip you need
to handle this thing you need to figure
this thing out how is that not anger
itself
um
yeah
that's a question how is that if if at
all how is that not angry anger at
yourself
yeah I mean that's definitely
anger yes
at least on my end I don't know about
you Christopher but yeah yeah
yeah
and when we did the um
the fifth Workshop in the connection
course when you externalize your inner
critic towards your partner
yeah oh I was absolutely shocked
by the ferocity with
how you talk to yourself and how quickly
you broke through the tears when you had
to externalize it
yeah and it just
blew my heart open with empathy for you
but also yeah that's
yeah yeah it was rough
yeah
so it sounds like maybe the anger
release at this circumstance that you
guys find yourself in together
also might change some of the way that
the anger gets directed instead of
internally it can get
it can move it can get moved
yeah yeah
I'm just curious
I know we can't do a full rage here and
it is good with like a physical
but I'm curious uh
let's start with You Chris or what if
you were to just [__]
verbally unleash on the situation for
and two minutes what would it sound like
[Applause]
yeah now I feel the tension is there
yeah and speak to it
like you you just yell which is
wonderful I loved it but like if you
were to just be like [__] you for
ah
yeah uh [__] you for limiting my life
and
for
yeah for causing me so much pain and for
causing pain to
the person who's the closest to me and
[__] you for depriving the world of all
the creative cool stuff I would do if I
wasn't ruminating about getting rid of
you all the time
uh
yeah
okay
okay it's true you are not good at this
I mean I turned it into something yeah
let's see if Sadie can let's see if
Sadie can show us how this is done
this is really it's actually quite hard
right yeah it is isn't it yeah
oh
so I'm just expressing my anger about
the situation you're kind of like at it
right so you're you're at the illness at
the situation yeah
you have
ruined my life
you have taken over
every part of me
I hate you
you have crushed my spirit
you have changed my go my goals
my dreams are shattered
and I [__] hate you
I feel like you stole my life
and you're just continually stealing it
and you don't care about anyone
yeah
cool I'm going to ask you to do I'm
going to ask you to do a slight
variation on that theme I want you to do
it but this time you're going to
dominate it
yeah your anger is there to dominate
this [__]
[Laughter]
after really like
visualize visualize it yeah okay no
breaks
okay I have to really
takes quite a lot of focus actually yeah
you have ruined my life
you've stolen
everything I want
you've ruined my future
you've taken away
traveling you've taken away cozy dinners
you've taken away movie Nights
events with my family a future of having
a family
a dream of being a mom
career goals
Financial stability
everything I've ever wanted
you have taken and destroyed
because you are selfish
and little moments little moments of joy
you steal
there there's no happiness when you're
around
you bold my life
yeah so it's great you're you're there's
more anger in there and less but I mean
dominate
like I'll give you an example like [__]
you you will not [__] take my [__]
life anymore [__] you okay I will have
all the [__] joy that I want and you
can't [__] know me I will [__]
dominate you
I will [__] dominate you you can do
whatever the [__] you got to do hurt his
shoulder whatever the [__] it is I am
not gonna have my [__] taken away from
me [__] you I will [__] own you you
will be my [__] little slavy [__] by
the time I'm [__] done with you I
mean dominate just see what it's like
where's my popcorn bro
[Laughter]
I mean that sounded quite nice actually
yeah
okay
you're not gonna ruin any more of my
life
I am done taking your [__]
I'm gonna do what I wanna do and when I
wanna do it yeah
you're done ruining my future I'm going
to have fun I'm gonna travel and you
can't do [__] and you can stay in your
dark wormy hole and die
um
how'd that feel
I felt good
like I kind of wanted to
you know stab something maybe yeah a
little violent yeah yeah
really nice actually yeah
and I just want to savor the you know
anybody who's listening both of these
two things is really important to be
able to fully Express what I would call
like the victim anger like you've done
this to me and [__] you and then the
[__] dominant anger both of those two
things are really important expressions
if we want to get to Clarity right if if
if the anger is kinked it's very hard to
get to Clarity but if we actually move
that anger
there's a lot of clarity to be had and a
lot of determination
and so when it was really nice yeah and
I could see the smile and yeah so that's
the thing is the the the kind of the
exhaustion to some degree is unexpressed
anger that's happening
yeah and it's okay to feel exhausted too
so okay now that Sadie showed us how to
do it Christopher I'm gonna get my
popcorn hold on a second all right
uh I this is the first time I'm nervous
like actually feeling yeah [__] okay
yeah uh
the domineering one
dominating whatever feels right oh [__]
if you if you get one place we'll do the
other place whatever feels great
yeah I'm so I'm so [__] over dealing
with you all the [__] time
I'm so
I'm so [__] over it man
it's always there you're always there
[__] pulling me down
and you're making me feel like I'm weak
but I'm not [__] weak
I'm just tired of feeling like this
yeah so so that's the sadness and that's
usually where your anger goes yep yeah
yeah so so let's do the dominant one
[__]
I want you literally to feel like you
are dominating it
yeah I can literally feel the blockage
like my I I I lost access to my emotions
it felt like
[__] you
[__] you and I don't I don't care if the
audio and this [__] recording is bad
when I do this I'm so [__] over
dealing with your [__] [__] all
the [__] time [__] off
yeah yeah yeah yeah keep going
you don't control me you don't [__]
tell me I'm too tired to make love to my
wife you don't tell me I don't have a
sex drive and don't want to [__] my
beautiful hot ass wife every day if I
want to [__] you
yeah keep going don't stop come on yeah
no I ain't going to stop you can say
whatever the [__] you on I'm gonna lean
back in my chair and Savor this [__]
moment because I'm strong I don't need
your [__] you can't tell me that I
have no energy that I have no sex drive
that I have no inspiration that I can't
do [__] that I can't be productive that
I can't travel I can't sleep whatever
the [__] it is I'm done [__] off
okay yeah it does feel good
but okay so the thing that feels so good
is that we're bonding over because this
could easily be the thing where it's
directed misdirected at each other
and then one person gets to express this
but the other person just feels pushed
down or uh yeah
that's really interesting wow
yeah
so you can be together in the sadness of
it and you can be together in the anger
of it
and you'd be together in the victim of
it
nobody has to take care of each other
here you can just be together
oh that's the relief
I mean honestly though I it might be one
of the best 40 minutes of my life
so Sadie if you think that's showing
your emotion is ever something that
makes me love you less it does not
I love this
and I love all of you I love all of you
and I tell you that and I really wanted
to get through to you I love all of you
every part there's nothing you can show
me
that I won't be able to love
any emotion
anything you can say anything to me you
can feel anything with me
I love you for everything
you're my miracle I hope you know that
yeah
for those of you who can't see Sadie's
face she clearly knows that
yeah so what I'll say just to wrap it up
is the
anytime so it's totally okay to say hey
I can't do the emotional work right I
don't I can't be without big emotion
right now it's totally [__] okay
to tell yourself you should be with it
is
is actually not being with it so yep
either you're capable in that moment or
you're not and that's fine like whatever
that is that's totally fine and the more
you can honor it the more you'll be able
to be there the way that you want to be
there
the other thing I'll say is that
what I see the thing last thing I saw
that what Christopher said is
he was talking about hey you could love
any part of you and that's because he's
learning to love every part of himself
and so as
as one of as any of us learn to love the
anger and learn to love the sadness and
learn to
love the victim we learn to love it in
everybody
right now yeah yeah
and for those of you who can't see Sadie
she smiled even bigger when she thought
of Christopher loving himself
yeah Joe [__] Hudson huh
thanks guys
I appreciate you having the courage to
come on here and make really good use of
me thank you very much for that
now this was so nice yeah thank you so
much Joe yeah I can't believe it I did
this
I'm so proud of you of us
Kickback I cried in front of a stranger
and let them record it
like my nightmare
I just want to say then
there is something in you
that pulled you towards doing this
because when I brought it up you
immediately said that would be fun
and that's not the little voice in you
talking saying you shouldn't feel this
or that or you should hold Christopher's
emotion even if you don't want to that's
not that voice
yeah even right now you have every
opportunity to say Joe I don't want this
out in the world
yeah I'm so brave
this was really nice I'm happy we did
this I mean the course was also really
nice
but this was I mean it was fun to have
you live facilitating something you know
rather than the recording so this was
really special yeah for me as well
total pleasure
okay I mean I I had no just the final
words I I had to pinch myself several
times uh that I get to do this with two
of my favorite people in the whole world
I'm so so grateful for this I love you
guys you too Joe you handsome son of a
[__] get away from my wife
[Laughter]
[Music]
okay pleasure guys
bye
wow that was beautiful thank you Joe
thank you Sadie thank you Christopher I
really loved feeling the difference in
the different forms of anger that showed
up and the freedom that was available
within them and just seeing seeing the
shifts that occurred even in real time
with both Christopher and Sadie thank
you both thank you Joe thank you
everybody for listening if this helped
you if you if you enjoyed this if you
think there's somebody out there that
you know that might benefit from this
and enjoy it please send it along and if
you want to check out Chris's podcast it
is called do explain
thank you and see you next time
thanks for listening to the art of
accomplishment if you enjoyed what you
heard today please subscribe and rate US
on your podcast app we'd love your
feedback so feel free to send us
questions or comments you can reach out
to us join our newsletter or check out
our courses at Art of accomplishment.com
[Music]
thank you